# Tracking-Portfolio-Optimization
Summary: 
In this project, a firm has 8 years of liabilities due in the future. To form our tracking portfolio, we have 10 simple bonds and 3 bond forwards available. In another scenario, we will use 234 currently tradeable treasuries from WSJ.

Full Description:
Bonds are a form of debt issued by governments and companies. You can purchase a bond for a given price with maturity date in the future at which point you will receive the face value of the bond. For example, you could purchase a bond for $98 (price) and at maturity the bond issuer will pay you $100 (face value). Coupon bonds are the bonds that offer a periodic payment during the life of the bond. Let’s say you purchase a bond for $102 with an annual coupon payment of $5, a face value of $100 and maturity three years from now. Then you will pay $102 immediately to purchase the bond, receive $5 coupon payments at the end of years 1, 2 and finally $5+$100=$105 at the end of year 3. For additional information see http://guides.wsj.com/personal-finance/investing/what-is-a-bond/. 
Bond forwards are similar to bonds, except the purchase of the bond will happen in the future, at terms agreed upon today.  For example, if you enter a forward bond contract that starts at year 1 at a forward price of $98 with a maturity at year 4 and $3 coupon, then today no money exchanges hands, one year from today you must pay $98, two years from today you get a $3 payment, three years from today you get a $3 payment and 4 years from today you get a $103 payment.  There is no optionality in this contract, you can choose not to enter the contract, but once you enter the contract you MUST pay the $98 next year.
Dedication or cash-flow matching is a technique used to fund known liabilities in the future. The intent is to form a portfolio of assets whose cash inflows will exactly match cash outflows. The liabilities will be paid off as they become due without the need to sell or buy assets in the future. The portfolio is formed today and held until all liabilities are paid off. Dedicated portfolios usually only consist of risk-free non-callable bonds and bond forwards since future cash inflows need to be known when the portfolio is constructed. Dedicated portfolios eliminate the risk caused by change in interest rates. Corporates, municipalities and pension funds routinely use such strategies. For example, corporates and municipalities sometimes want to fund liabilities stemming from projects that they might have initiated. To simplify the problem, assume that one can buy a fraction of a bond and forward, but cannot short bonds or forwards (there is therefore no opportunity for arbitrage).In this project, we will be writing and using Python to construct a dedicated portfolio. 
